Data Integrity During On-Boarding - Best Practices (#664)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/apps/guides/data/on-boarding-data-integrity.md

---
title: "Best Practices for Data Integrity During On-Boarding"
linkTitle: "Data Integrity in On-Boarding"
weight: 15
description: >
    How to ensure training data ends up in training and production data ends up production.

---

{{% pageinfo %}}
This best practices guide should not be followed verbatim.  Instead, it is important to review each suggestion and assess if your deployment can benefit from it.

> {{% /pageinfo %}}

Reviewer: This block may be better as a note, but we can revisit after the main structure/overview is addressed.

## Introduction

> When on-boarding CHWs or refreshing their training, it is important to both enable them to learn how to use the CHT using a real mobile device with a real CHT Android application on the exact same configuration as production will use. This will give them the confidence to correctly and safely use the app to do their first household visits. This guide assumes that CHWs will have both a training and production app installed at the same time, or the CHW will be instructed to go install and log into the production app when training has been completed.

Reviewer: I keep waiting for part two of that first sentence because of the "important to both...."

Author: that sentence is too long as it is!! removed the "both" in 7fe4410

Just as important, is to ensure their training data does not end up polluting production data.

On-boarding is not a one-size-fits-all process. Be sure to assess which of the items below meet your deployment's needs and implement them accordingly. Within this assessment, consider if extra set up is needed (eg couch2pg hooked up to training) to enable the size you need to fit your deployment.

## Training and Documentation

When training CHWs, it is critical that they understand when they're using the training instance vs. the production instance. Consider adding a step to training documentation of "Ensure you're in the training app by confirming the 'URL' in 'About' under the hamburger menu". While laborious, it is a relatively quick check which empowers the CHW to know which instance they're using:

![App URL in settings](app.url.png)

> The URL may not be a good proxy for CHWs to know which instance they're on. Will a CHW looking at  "example.**dev**.medicmobile.org" be able to tell the difference from "example.**app**.medicmobile.org"? To aid  CHWs, consider using a [different icon for the launcher and login]({{< relref "core/guides/android/branding" >}}).

Reviewer: It would be nice to avoid having medicmobile.org in here, so perhaps `project.dev.example.com`

Author: agreed! fixed in 3d1f96b .

> **NB:** A caveat to using the hamburger menu is that the "Logout" option is here. CHWs should be cautious not to click this. Alternatively, "Logout" can be removed [from this menu via `can_log_out_on_android`]({{< relref "apps/reference/app-settings/user-permissions" >}}).

Reviewer: Although the informal tone is appropriate for a guide, the expressions like `is here` and `click this` make it hard to understand. Also, it's better to [avoid latin word/phrases](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/contribute/docs/style-guide/#latin-phrases) like `NB` and even `caveat`, and use a [note box](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/contribute/docs/style-guide/#notes-and-tips).

```suggestion
{{% alert title="Note" %}}Careful when selecting **About** to not select **Logout**. If accidental log outs are a frequent problem the logout option can be removed [from the menu by setting `can_log_out_on_android` to false]({{< relref "apps/reference/app-settings/user-permissions" >}}).{{% /alert %}}
```

2. Ensure affected CHWs have synced their devices to the development instance one last time. If they have been offline for some time and gathered production data, signing out or deleting the app before synchronizing may result in lost data.
3. Find the date when CHWs should have started using production. Convert this to epoch with milliseconds. For example if the time was "Tue, 01 Dec 2020 09:36:50 GMT" then the epoch would be "1606815410000"
4. Using Fauxton, create a view to show all documents created after this date:

    ```
    function (doc) {
        if(doc.reported_date > 1606815410000) {
            emit(doc._id, 1);
        }
    }
   ```

    ![Creating a view in Fauxton](create.view.png)
5. Download the UUIDs of the documents in the view, and convert it to raw format (uuids-2.txt):

    ```
    curl "$COUCH_URL/medic/_design/temp/_view/temp1" > uuids-1.txt
    cat uuids-1.txt | jq -r '.rows[].id' > uuids-2.txt
    ```
6. Download all the matching docs to docs.json:

    ```
    cat uuids-2.txt | jq --raw-input --slurp '{keys: split("\n") }' | curljz -d@- "$COUCH_URL/medic/_all_docs?include_docs=true" | jq '{docs: [ .rows[] | select(.doc).doc ]}' > docs.json
    ```

> 7. Change the fields by deleting "_rev" field and also "_attachments" if uploading in a different instance.

Author: @Marina-Kenf - thanks for your input to answer @binokaryg question on this in the draft of this document. How does this look?

```suggestion
7. Change the fields by deleting "_rev" field and also "_attachments" if uploading in a different instance. This can be carefully done by manually editing the JSON locally before uploading or by running `DELETE` calls against the CouchDB database.
```

Reviewer 2: @mrjones-plip, I'll rather remove the deletion part in CouchDB unless we want to destroy the original documents on the initial instance.

Author: Awesome - thanks @Marina-Kenf ! I've updated the text and will commit the change.  

@binokaryg - lemme know if this satisfies your original "how" question!
